{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\info
{\author John Pederson}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16360\viewh15620\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs22 \cf0 United States History Unit - War\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \

\b \ul Goals
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 Describe the qualities of war. What is it? What it isn\'92t?\
Investigate the historical record to determine the years the United States was and was not at war based on student definition.\
Draw conclusions about the impact of war on a population based on a historical example and modern examples.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b \ul 11th Grade Essential Questions\

\b0 \ulnone \
What causes systemic and individual change?\
What is the role of the individual in creating and sustaining change?\
What the relationship between the self and a changing world?\
\

\b \ul Unit Essential Questions\

\b0 \ulnone \
What is war?\
Is war ever just?  If so, under what conditions?\
How has war become part of the US narrative?  \
How does war impact domestic life?\
\

\b \ul Understandings\

\b0 \ulnone \
War is one of the most commonly discussed aspects of American History.\
War is not easy to define within a group of Americans, including the conditions for a just war.\
The US has engaged in military actions throughout its history leading to the largest military presence in the world.\
\

\b \ul Students Will Know...\

\b0 \ulnone \
The broad history of military engagement across American History.\
The impact of war on a home population historically and in the present day.\
The governmental machinations for declaring war, deploying troops, engaging forces outside the US.\
The shift between war when necessary to constant war machine after WWII and the advent of proliferated nuclear weapons.\
\

\b \ul Students Will be Able To...\

\b0 \ulnone \
Reach class-wide consensus\
Synthesize data related to historical evidence\
Analyze a variety of primary source documents\
Draw conclusions based on historical questions\
Create a new product from newly acquired knowledge\
Summarize main ideas\
Construct notes from written and oral information\
\

\b \ul Resources
\b0 \ulnone \
\
[*] YouTube - Nuclear Testing - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9U8CZAKSsNA"}}{\fldrslt http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9U8CZAKSsNA}}\
[x] YouTube - Nuclear Weapons Transparency - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSWNHGaXx_k"}}{\fldrslt http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSWNHGaXx_k}}\
[*] On The Media: Transcript of "Virtual War" (April 9, 2012) - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.onthemedia.org/transcripts/2010/04/09/02"}}{\fldrslt http://www.onthemedia.org/transcripts/2010/04/09/02}}\
Iraq War coalition Fatalities - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.obleek.com/iraq/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.obleek.com/iraq/}}\
Is Sudan Moving Back to the Brink of War? - TIME - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1952418,00.html?xid=rss-topstories-polar"}}{\fldrslt http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1952418,00.html?xid=rss-topstories-polar}}\
Afganistan, October 2009 - The Big Picture - Boston.com - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.boston.com/bigpicture/2009/10/afghanistan_october_2009.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.boston.com/bigpicture/2009/10/afghanistan_october_2009.html}}\
A History of Conflicts - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.conflicthistory.com/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.conflicthistory.com/}}\
What's All the Fighting For? - GOOD - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.good.is/?p=14054"}}{\fldrslt http://www.good.is/?p=14054}}\
Maps of War - Maps - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mapsofwar.com/maps.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.mapsofwar.com/maps.html}}\
Congress' Role In War - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2002-10-08-congress-war.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2002-10-08-congress-war.htm}}\
Casualties in US Wars - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.historycentral.com/desert_storm/Casualties.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.historycentral.com/desert_storm/Casualties.html}}\
Why We Fight - A Film By Eugene Jarecki - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sonyclassics.com/whywefight/main.html"}}{\fldrslt http://www.sonyclassics.com/whywefight/main.html}}\
Why We Fight - War Comes to America - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.archive.org/details/WarComesToAmerica"}}{\fldrslt http://www.archive.org/details/WarComesToAmerica}}\
Military Industrial Complex Speech - Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1961 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://coursesa.matrix.msu.edu/%7Ehst306/documents/indust.html"}}{\fldrslt http://coursesa.matrix.msu.edu/%7Ehst306/documents/indust.html}}\
\
*: Local Copy Saved\
x: Link Dead\
\
\

\b \ul Daily Learning Activities\

\b0 \ulnone \

\b \ul Day 1\

\b0 \ulnone JQ: National History Day Topic Ideas - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://nhd.org/AnnualTheme.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://nhd.org/AnnualTheme.htm}}\
The theme for this year's National History Day is Revolution, Reaction and Reform. What are you interested in pursuing for the project and connect it to the theme?\
Activity: Students start the National History Day process by proposing a few ideas, chatting with partners to narrow down the ideas.\
\

\b \ul Day 2\

\b0 \ulnone Activity: National History Day Topic and Primary Sources\
Choose one of the topic ideas from yesterday and locate three primary source documents that are related to your topic.  Complete the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.archives.gov/education/lessons/worksheets/"}}{\fldrslt NARA Analysis worksheets}} for the relevant source.\
\

\b \ul Day 3\

\b0 \ulnone Activity (continued): National History Day Topic and Primary Sources\
Please copy and paste the links to your three primary sources.\
Now start a Google Doc and paste those links in there. Start keeping a log of all your research.\
Paste in THE PUBLIC link to your Google Doc here. Do not share me in, just paste the published, public link.\
\

\b \ul Day 4\

\b0 \ulnone Activity: Locate three secondary sources related to your topic.  Paste the links along with a short summary of the source in your National History Day Google Doc.\
\

\b \ul Day 5\

\b0 \ulnone JQ: National History Day Link to Theme\
The theme of National History Day 2012 is Revolution, Reaction and Reform.  Please spend 5-7 sentences explaining the connection of your topic to the theme.\
\

\b \ul Day 6\

\b0 \ulnone JQ: Define War.\
Activity: Take your definition and work with a partner to make one definition out of your two definitions.\
Activity: Listen to this report, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=6416780"}}{\fldrslt Are We At War?}}\
Write one item for\'85\
I noticed:\
I wonder:\
What if?:\
\

\b \ul Day 7\

\b0 \ulnone Activity: Collaborating on War\
Join forces with table partners from the OPPOSITE side of the room.\
Share your definitions of war.\
Listen carefully for places of intersection and agreement.\
Work for 15 min. to come to consensus on a collaborative war definition.\
Open a Google spreadsheet and share all members of the group to the same doc.\
Post the final group definition of war at the top of the page.\
Google spreadsheet War Starter Doc\
\

\b \ul Day 8\

\b0 \ulnone Collaborating on War (continued)\
Determine what % of years the US was at war out of the 222 total.\
\

\b \ul Day 9\

\b0 \ulnone Collaborating on War - Presentations\
\

\b \ul Day 10\

\b0 \ulnone National History Day -  Work Day\
\

\b \ul Day 11\

\b0 \ulnone National History Day -  Essay Writing with Sources\
\

\b \ul Day 12\

\b0 \ulnone A Just War\
\

\b \ul Day 13\

\b0 \ulnone A Just War\
\

\b \ul Day 14\

\b0 \ulnone A Just War\
\

\b \ul Day 15\

\b0 \ulnone Military Industrial Complex\
\

\b \ul Day 16\

\b0 \ulnone Military Industrial Complex\
\

\b \ul Project Guidelines\

\b0 \ulnone \

\b \ul Project Summary\

\b0 \ulnone War is simultaneously one of the most prevalent words in American history and yet defining it can be a challenging endeavor.  Students will work through a series of activities where they will define war, then work with a partner to \'91join\'92 definitions - come to consensus... join definitions with another pair.  \
\

\b \ul Inquiry\

\b0 \ulnone What defines a war?  Define this individually, then in pairs then in a group of 4.  You should develop consensus at each round.  \
\

\b \ul Research
\b0 \ulnone \
Students will use the definition generated from the last group of 4 collaboration to determine when in the 222 year history of the United States was at war.  The definition drives the list, students must evaluate the historical record to make the decision if the US was at war or not.  \
\

\b \ul Collaboration
\b0 \ulnone \
Students will collaborate in groups of 4 to first come to consensus on the definition and then share the responsibilities for accounting for when the US was at war an not at war across its history as a country.  Students should take responsibility for their portion, but also be willing to help each other out with their portions.  \
\

\b \ul Presentation\

\b0 \ulnone Students will present their findings to at least two different groups to determine the different paths that were taken for the definition and evaluation of the historical record.  Students will then work as a full class to bring the class to consensus.  This is a difficult process and takes a bit of time.\
\

\b \ul Reflection\

\b0 \ulnone Students will look at all the different definitions, the years at war vs. not at war and analyze the different versions.  In addition, students will reflect on how much war the US has been in, how they feel about that, what the future holds for the US and war.}